index.md, before:

---
layout: home
---

<img src="img/devonn_logo.png" height="200px" width="auto" align="right" hspace="20">

# Overview

In nature, brains are built through a process of biological development in which
many aspects of the network of neurons and connections change are shaped by
external information received through sensory organs. Biological development
mechanisms such as axon guidance and dendrite pruning have been shown to rely on
neural activity. Despite this, most artificial neural network (ANN) models do
not include developmental mechanisms and regard learning as the adjustment of
connection weights, while some that do use development restrain it to a period
before the ANN is used. It is worthwhile to understand the cognitive functions
offered by development and to investigate the fundamental questions raised by
artificial neural development. In this workshop, we will explore existing and
future approaches that aim to incorporate development into ANNs. Invited
speakers will present their work with neural networks, both artificial and
biological, in the context of development. Accepted submissions on contemporary
work in this field will be presented and we will hold an open discussion on the
topic.

# 2019 Workshop

The 2nd edition of the Developmental Neural Networks Workshop will be held as a
part of [ALIFE 2019](https://2019.alife.org/) in Newcastle, UK on Friday, August
2nd in room NUBS 2.10 from 2-5:30pm.

## Program

14:00-14:20 | [**Introduction to Developmental Neural Networks**](/devonn/files/wilson_2019_presentation.pdf)
  | Dennis G. Wilson, Julian F. Miller, and Sylvain Cussat-Blanc
14:20-15:30 | [**Connectome Development – From Local Neuronal Links to Global Fibre Tract Brain Networks**](/devonn/2019/07/30/keynote.html)
  | Roman Bauer, Marcus Kaiser
15:30-16:00 | **Break**
  |
16:00-16:20 | [**Normalisation of Weights and Firing Rates in Spiking Neural Networks with Spike-Timing-Dependent Plasticity**](/devonn/files/alife2019-kozdon.pdf)
  | Kasia Kozdon, Peter Bentley
16:20-16:40 | [**Evolving an artificial brain to solve multiple problems**](/devonn/files/alife2019-miller.pdf) ([slides](/devonn/files/miller_2019_presentation.pdf))
  | Julian Miller
16:40-17:00 | **Learning to Talk in a Gesture-Rich World: Application in Cognitive Robotics**
  | Gabriella Pizzuto
17:00-17:30 | **Panel discussions**

## Submissions

We welcome anyone to participate and encourage the submission of extended
abstracts of 2-4 pages (MIT Press format). We are open to submissions concerning
a variety of neural development topics, from hand-written rules to evolved
systems, and from conceptual work to experimental results. Accepted submissions
will be distributed online and presented during the workshop. Abstracts must be
submitted via email to [devonn@irit.fr](mailto:devonn@irit.fr) by EOD ~~June 3~~
June 14, 2019.

## Important Dates

+ Abstract Submission: ~~June 3~~ June 14, 2019
+ Author Notification: ~~June 17~~ June 28, 2019
+ Workshop: August 2, 2019
+ ALIFE: July 29 - August 2, 2019

# Organizers

+ Julian F Miller, [julian.miller@york.ac.uk](mailto:&#106;&#117;&#108;&#105;&#097;&#110;&#046;&#109;&#105;&#108;&#108;&#101;&#114;&#064;&#121;&#111;&#114;&#107;&#046;&#097;&#099;&#046;&#117;&#107;)
+ Sylvain Cussat-Blanc, [sylvain.cussat-blanc@irit.fr](mailto:&#115;&#121;&#108;&#118;&#097;&#105;&#110;&#046;&#099;&#117;&#115;&#115;&#097;&#116;&#045;&#098;&#108;&#097;&#110;&#099;&#064;&#105;&#114;&#105;&#116;&#046;&#102;&#114;)
+ Dennis G Wilson, [dennis.wilson@irit.fr](mailto:&#100;&#101;&#110;&#110;&#105;&#115;&#046;&#119;&#105;&#108;&#115;&#111;&#110;&#064;&#105;&#114;&#105;&#116;&#046;&#102;&#114;)

The organizers can be contacted at [devonn@irit.fr](mailto:devonn@irit.fr).

Commit message:

2019 to separate post, pizzuto presentation, and 2020 main page

index.md, after:

---
layout: home
---

<img src="img/devonn_logo.png" height="200px" width="auto" align="right" hspace="20">

# Overview

In nature, brains are built through a process of biological development in which
many aspects of the network of neurons and connections change are shaped by
external information received through sensory organs. Biological development
mechanisms such as axon guidance and dendrite pruning have been shown to rely on
neural activity. Despite this, most artificial neural network (ANN) models do
not include developmental mechanisms and regard learning as the adjustment of
connection weights, while some that do use development restrain it to a period
before the ANN is used. It is worthwhile to understand the cognitive functions
offered by development and to investigate the fundamental questions raised by
artificial neural development. In this workshop, we will explore existing and
future approaches that aim to incorporate development into ANNs. Invited
speakers will present their work with neural networks, both artificial and
biological, in the context of development. Accepted submissions on contemporary
work in this field will be presented and we will hold an open discussion on the
topic.

# 2020 Workshop

The 3rd edition of the Developmental Neural Networks Workshop will be held as a
part of [ALIFE 2020](https://2020.alife.org/) in its virtual format. More
details coming soon about how this virtual workshop will take place.

## Submissions

We welcome anyone to participate and encourage the submission of extended
abstracts of 2-4 pages (MIT Press format). We are open to submissions
concerning a variety of neural development topics, from hand-written rules to
evolved systems, and from conceptual work to experimental results. Accepted
submissions will be distributed online and presented during the workshop.
Abstracts must be submitted via email to
[devonn@irit.fr](mailto:devonn@irit.fr) by June 15th, 2020 UTC-12. This
deadline will not be extended.

## Important Dates

+ Abstract Submission: June 15, 2020
+ Author Notification: July 1, 2020
+ Workshop: TBD
+ ALIFE: July 13-18, 2020

# Organizers

+ Julian F Miller, [julian.miller@york.ac.uk](mailto:&#106;&#117;&#108;&#105;&#097;&#110;&#046;&#109;&#105;&#108;&#108;&#101;&#114;&#064;&#121;&#111;&#114;&#107;&#046;&#097;&#099;&#046;&#117;&#107;)
+ Sylvain Cussat-Blanc, [sylvain.cussat-blanc@irit.fr](mailto:&#115;&#121;&#108;&#118;&#097;&#105;&#110;&#046;&#099;&#117;&#115;&#115;&#097;&#116;&#045;&#098;&#108;&#097;&#110;&#099;&#064;&#105;&#114;&#105;&#116;&#046;&#102;&#114;)
+ Dennis G Wilson, [dennis.wilson@irit.fr](mailto:&#100;&#101;&#110;&#110;&#105;&#115;&#046;&#119;&#105;&#108;&#115;&#111;&#110;&#064;&#105;&#114;&#105;&#116;&#046;&#102;&#114;)

The organizers can be contacted at [devonn@irit.fr](mailto:devonn@irit.fr).
