---
layout: post
title: "Developmental neuronal networks as models to study the evolution of biological intelligence"
date: 2020-07-13
---

Arend Hintze, P. Robin Hiesinger, Jory Schossau

[pdf](/devonn/files/2020/hintze_final.pdf)

Abstract: Artificial neural networks (ANNs) learn through iterative ad-
justment of synaptic weights, most commonly by backprop-
agation or similar training methods. By contrast, learning in
the neuro-evolution approach of ANNs as well as in biolog-
ical neural networks can also be achieved through iterative
adjustment of synaptic weights based on mutational changes
of a genome. Evolutionary learning of ANNs is typically
based on changes in the genome that directly affect synap-
tic weights, while the biological genome affects changes to
synaptic weights through indirect and developmental encod-
ing of the molecular composition of synapses. Methods for
indirect and developmental encoding in ANNs are compara-
bly scarce and their constraints and advantages remain in-
completely explored. Here, we identify robustness to en-
vironmental challenges as a key feature associated with in-
direct and developmental encoding using a neuro-evolution
approach. In biological systems, the developmental process
’unfolds’ synaptic connectivity information in a time- and
energy-consuming process that is sensitive to environmental
conditions like temperature. Our tests for robustness to devel-
opmental temperature reveal successful adaptation for indi-
rect encoding followed by a developmental process compared
to lower performance of developmental or indirect encoding
alone. These findings set the stage for a more comprehensive
neuro-evo-devo approach that acknowledges the necessity of
neural network development for biological intelligence.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/CmYg4N8ZkQ8" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Part of the [2020 Workshop](/devonn/2020/07/13/alife.html) on Developmental Neural Networks
